feat/vercel guides migration (#2240)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/vercel-to-azion/vercel-to-azion-comprehensive-guide.mdx

---
title: Migrate from Vercel to Azion | Complete migration guide for modern applications
description: >-
  Learn how to migrate from Vercel to Azion with less operational risk. Migrate Vercel projects, production deployments, preview deployments, CDN configuration, Functions, Fluid Compute, AI integrations, Blob, Edge Config, Firewall, WAF, bot controls, domains, DNS, analytics, and observability workflows to Azion Applications, Functions, AI Inference, Object Storage, KV Store, Firewall, Web Application Firewall, Edge DNS, Certificate Manager, Real-Time Metrics, Real-Time Events, Data Stream, and Edge Pulse.
meta_tags: 'Azion, Vercel, migration, applications, functions, AI, CDN, observability'
namespace: docs_guides_vercel_to_azion
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/vercel-migration-guide/
---

import Tabs from '~/components/tabs/Tabs'
import Code from '~/components/Code/Code.astro'

# Migrate from Vercel to Azion

> A platform migration usually begins long before the first project is redeployed or the first production domain is moved. It starts when a team notices that build, delivery, compute, AI, storage, security, and observability workflows need more operational control than the current platform model provides.

Reviewer: Suggested improvement: Open with a concrete outcome statement, e.g., "Teams migrating from Vercel to Azion consolidate build, delivery, compute, AI, storage, security, and observability into a single platform — eliminating the fragmentation that grows as modern applications scale."

> A platform migration usually begins long before the first project is redeployed or the first production domain is moved. It starts when a team notices that build, delivery, compute, AI, storage, security, and observability workflows need more operational control than the current platform model provides.

Author: ```suggestion
A platform migration usually begins long before the first project is redeployed or the first production domain is moved. Teams migrating from Vercel to Azion consolidate build, delivery, compute, AI, storage, security, and observability into a single platform and eliminating the fragmentation that grows as modern applications scale.
```

1. Access [Azion Console](https://console.azion.com/).
2. Navigate to **Build > Variables**.
3. Click **Add Variable**.
4. Enter the variable name and value.
5. Click **Save**.
</Fragment>

<Fragment slot="panel.api">
<Code lang="bash" code={`
curl -X POST 'https://api.azionapi.net/variables' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
  "key": "AI_API_KEY",
  "value": "key-value"
}'
`} />
:::note
Azion manages environment variables at the Function instance level, not through a standalone variables API. Variables are configured as key-value pairs in the `vars` field when creating or updating a function instance. See the [Functions Instances documentation](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/build/applications/functions-instances/) for details.
:::
</Fragment>
</Tabs>

#### Update Your Code

<Code lang="javascript" code={`
// Before: Vercel / Node.js
const apiKey = process.env.API_KEY;
const aiApiKey = process.env.AI_API_KEY;

// After: Azion Functions
const apiKey = Azion.env.get('API_KEY');
const aiApiKey = Azion.env.get('AI_API_KEY');
`} />

> :::caution[warning]

Reviewer: The [warning] label inside the caution callout is redundant (caution already implies warning). Should be :::caution only, consistent with Azion docs standards.

| **Firewall rules block valid users** | Rule logic or IP lists differ from Vercel | Run in monitored mode, compare events, and tune criteria |
| **Analytics gap after cutover** | Vercel analytics dependencies were not replaced | Configure Edge Pulse, Real-Time Metrics, Real-Time Events, and Data Stream |
| **Certificate not active** | Domain ownership or certificate association is incomplete | Confirm certificate status and workload association before DNS cutover |

## Key Advantages After Migration

Migrating from Vercel to Azion is strongest when the team treats the first cutover as a repeatable migration pattern. The immediate goal is continuity: users keep reaching the same domains, critical routes continue working, security controls remain active, and observability is ready before traffic moves.

The larger value comes after migration, when teams operate build, delivery, compute, AI, storage, security, and observability in one platform model.

| Area | Advantage after migration | What it means in practice |
| :--- | :------------------------ | :------------------------ |

> | **Migration strategy** | Incremental migration path | Teams can migrate one Vercel project at a time and validate each layer independently. |

Reviewer: Suggestion: "Migrate one project, validate build, delivery, and security, then expand — reducing rollback risk at every step."

> | **Migration strategy** | Incremental migration path | Teams can migrate one Vercel project at a time and validate each layer independently. |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Migration strategy** | Incremental migration path | Migrate one project, validate build, delivery, and security, then expand and reducing rollback risk at every step. |
```
